- [Instructor] The code and tests tends to be disorganized.
Some mocks here and there, interleaved
with assertions and test method calls.
Let's look at the given-when-then methodology
with BDDMockito and AssertJ
to create human readable tests.
Given-when-then methodology arrived
from a very popular AGL development process called BDD
or behavior-driven development.
BDD, which emerged from TDD, brings to the table
a human friendly style of writing test
scenarios by structuring the test
into three parts.
Given is where we put our preconditions
and requirements for this use case.
When is the action that we want to test.
Usually this involves calling no more than one or two lines
of code.
Then is used to verify what should happen
after the execution of the action.
It is represented usually by assertions
to more classes and validation of returned results.
This brings more clarity in our tests
as we are following a natural language that is easy to read
not only by developers
but also by business users.
Unlike standard Mockito, which uses when alias
to configure behavior of a mock.
BDDMockito provides us with a more elegant alias given,
which integrates nicely with a given part of BDD style test.
Another library that we are going to use
in our tests is the AssertJ.
But why should you care about AssertJ
if J unit comes with assertions out of the box?
Actually JUnit assertions are quite limited
to a few basic scenarios
and lead to confusion when reading them.
For example, a common mistake that many developers
still make is mixed up the expected with the actual value.
Compare that to a AssertJ which provides a much more natural
and fluent API, AssertJ provides a rich set of assertions,
truly helpful error messages, improves test code readability
and is designed to be super easy to use.
To highlight some of the features describing assertions,
field by field comparison,
iterable, araya assertions, capture and then assert
on a throwable, which can be expressed by Alonda.
Note that a AssertJ also comes with BDD friendly alias.
Like BDDMockito has called then,
which we will use instead of assertThat.
The adoption of BDDMockito together
with AssertJ provides us with a powerful feature set
that can help us reduce boilerplate code
and write more readable verification called blocks.